In the previous lecture, we learned how to use variables and we saw that we can name our variables
whatever we want.
So if I created a variable in which I'm going to store the name of my dog, it can be called dog or
my dog, or even the letter D.
It will work just the same as long as when I need to invoke it.
I write it exactly the same as when I declared it.
But even though you can write your variable names however you want, here are some rules to follow.
The most important one is to make your code easy to read like text.
If your variable is called dog or dog name, you are making it clear what it contains.
And if I read the sentence in your code, I will understand its logical meaning as easily as when I
read a sentence in plain English.
If in order to type less you put something very simple like D in your variable or something very fancy.
Like My dog has a name and this is it.
Your code will work fine because the machine will read it without problems.
However, if a person has to read it, they will have to make a bigger effort to understand the logic
of your code.
So this is not a good practice.
As a programmer, you will be working in a team regularly, or you even may have to read your code again
in a month or a year.
And when you read variable names like DE or My Dog has a name and this is it, you will regret not giving
more descriptive or simpler to read names.
Another rule is that your variable names must consist of a single unit of text.
This means that you cannot use two or more words separated by spaces.
So if you want your variable to be called student's name, you can use underscores to replace the spaces.
In other languages, it is customary to remove spaces and capitalize the first letter of subsequent
words, but not in Python.
Lowercase and underscores have to be used.
You can also use numbers in your variable names, but not at the beginning.
Variables must always start with a letter and you can put numbers at the end.
As we saw in the example in the previous lecture, if you put them at the beginning, the compiler will
return an error message.
Another rule and this one is mandatory, is that your variable names cannot contain any of these symbols.
So if you want to put an insult, you'd better think of something else.
Finally, you can't name your variables using special keywords like input, print, and many others
that we will learn later.
These are words reserved by Python to structure how the code works.
If you were to call your variable print, it would generate confusion in the code because Python would
not be able to distinguish whether print is a command to display on the screen or a variable that you
have created.
In short, think of these restrictions not as limits to your creativity, but as good practices that
will help you design a readable, easy to understand and pleasant to read code.
Thanks for being here and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.